session Question:







introduction to DevOps:
devolopment activity includes building an app, writing business logic, etc.
Operational guy is someone who is going to place an app to the server, run it or excute it.Devops used to exist before cloud.

how the software is build and deliver to the coustomers:
how server works, how physical support helps to keep the server alive (a person there to be in presence to look after the server and also a person who provied power supply). server side managed by Ops and application managed by Devs.known about Data center and how they works, advantages and disadvantages of data centers. 

Addressing how cloud is helping to solve the disadvantage of data centers.  For example, pay as you go use, allocating or disallocating servers within a minute, can manage anything that is managed by human resource (can manage operating system, networking configures, security, and deployment life cycle).

cloud is not just storage it is a big data center. advantages of cloud.

how to request a server (how many cpu, RAM)

Devoloping side:
we are not going to do any devolopment, In our terms what is devolopment, we should be having a knowledge of debugging, for any troubleshooting, deploying.

Operstion side:
manily cloud operations, examples,Provision Resoruces, managing security, monitaring the app, notifying or alerting, automating infraprovisional.



•Logics in DevOps
1. Shell Scripting
2. Linux Administration
3. Version Control
4. Deployment Strategies

• flavors in Linux
1. Redhat
2. Fedoral
3. Debian
4. Ubuntu
5. SUSE Linux

•Linux basics commands
	Directories ->folder
	Cat->Display file content
	Whoami ->Username
	$->In standard user
	#->Administator mood
	sudo->super user
	ls->List
	Touch->Create a file eg :touch file.txt
	Vim->we can edit the file like insert eg:vim file.txt 
	Man ->it help us showing detail of commands
	Mkdir ->create directory
	Cp->copy source to destination
	rm->remove file
	pwd->display current directory
